---
title: Comments and Improvements
date: 2019-12-30
description: I've added comments to stories, removed some stories, and changed the lettering for legibility.
categories: 
  - news
  - update
---

Another day, another update.
<br><br>
As promised, I've gone ahead and added a commenting feature to my stories by way of Disqus (an integrated chat application). I've placed the comment box at the very bottom of each of my story pages, but you can get to it quickly by clicking the chat bubble icon (<i class="fas fa-comment"></i>) in the story submenu. Use this new feature to provide me with some feedback, or just to comment as you feel... or don't use it at all&mdash;see what I care.
<br><br>
I've also made some minor tweaks to the site in order to improve legibility, which was an issue that some readers pointed out to me. To address this, I've reduced the font sizes a bit, and reduced the contrast between the font colors and backgrounds for a (hopefully) easier read. 
<br><br>
Finally, the other big change for the day is bittersweet but necessary. I've decided that I need to clean house of my older, lower quality writing that doesn't quite fit (the literary snapshots, which are closer to poems then fiction). Moving forward, I'm going to try and write more speculative fiction but I also don't want to pigeonhole myself, and am leaving room to explore other genres. In any case, please bear with me as I work to generate more content for your enjoyment.
<br><br>
On that note, I'll get to work on rewriting that first chapter of Morgan the Magician for you. It's a comedic fantasy that follows the exploits of a morally questionable wizard as he struggles to survive in the criminal underworld of Almsborough. So stay tuned. I'm already thinking I may make this a series of standalone stories, instead of a long novel, which would also be cool...
<br><br>
Talk soon,<br>
Trevor