---
layout: story
title: New Homepage and Project Announcement
date: 2019-12-29
description: I've updated the homepage, and an announcing a project.
categories: 
  - news
  - update
---

Hello again, dear reader. I've another update, and so soon from the last (I'm on a roll here. I better slow down before I start raising expectations).
<br><br>
...Anyhow, I've gone ahead and updated the homepage to include recent updates and a story preview. Hopefully this serves to put all of my recent activity in one pretty place, and you can get a sense of things at a glance. 
<br><br>
In other news, I'd like to announce a <strong>new project</strong> that I'll be releasing here in the coming months. A serialized novel that I'll release chapter by chapter, called <em>Morgan the Magician</em>. Before starting on the project, I wanted to give you some backstory.
<br><br>
First, a confession: I've actually written <em>Morgan the Magician</em> already&mdash;there you have it, the dirty truth. However, to be frank, I think it's shite. In fact, I know it's shite. There are a whole multitude of reasons for this work's lackluster nature, which I won't get into here. But the point is after six months of cranking out this novel, I abandoned it; I let all of that work go to waste, and that just doesn't feel right.
<br><br>
So, I decided to do something with it, to improve myself as a writer, and to engage with an audience: I decided to rewrite <em>Morgan the Magician</em>, chapter by chapter, and post the results on my site as I go. Hopefully, the end product of this will be an engaged audience and a far better literary product. We shall see. 
<br><br>
In any case, I plan on releasing one reworked chapter of <em>Morgan the Magician</em> a week, and will do my best to stick to that. So, <a href="/mailing-list">stay tuned</a>, and more importantly, let me know what you think of the story as the chapters churn out (I'll be adding a forum/chat feature to the site soon, so look out for that too).
<br><br>
Talk soon,<br>
Trevor