---
layout: story
title: "Wrath of the Secretary"
date: October 15, 2021
comments: true
image: uploads/secretary.jpg
description: >
  While attempting to arrange an appointment, a disoriented man gets into a moral argument with a secretary that leads to surreal philosophical discussion.
categories: 
  - literary
  - mainstream
featured: true

---
<i class="gray">
  Note: story originally published in the <a href="https://thedillydounreview.com/issue-9/trevor-sorel/" target="_blank">Dillydoun Review</a>.
</i>
<hr>
  I'm stuck at another red light. I seem to be catching every
stop today--a rhythmic procession of interruptions, delivered
between shades of yellow and green. It's causing my frustration
to build as an eager tapping at the floorboard of my car. I need
to keep going, must feed the habit energy. That way, the world
slides by in a productive haze and I can feel like I've
accomplished something. It's the single-minded focus of a
racehorse with blinders on, always looking for a goal and a
finish line. The crowds rush by in a blur.

  No, that's not right. I notice the crowds, get caught up in the
expressions and faces. It's the words they speak. That's the
better metaphor--I forget the words, the superfluous details. I
don't forget the meaningful ones, though, like the heaviness in a
laborer's neck, or the way trees cast shadows over the
crenelations of a gothic church.

  The words. What am I forgetting? It's the meeting. Damn. I
forgot the meeting today at noon. Another side effect of my
peculiar brand of absentmindedness, I suppose. But that's not a
big deal, is it? Just business, nothing personal.  I'll call the
accountant's office to reschedule. It'll be fine.

  Through the window of my car, I glance up at the street light
above me. I pass this one many times a day. Never noticed how the
outermost light is mounted on a double bracket. Just one light.
That's strange. My eyes drift down the spindly steel mounts and
catch on the fluorescent yellow of the fixtures. Never noticed
that before, either. In California, all the streetlights are
encased in clunky tomes of black, with billowing collars of
steel. Another difference that adds to the subtle otherness of
this place, Colorado.

  She's in California, the accountant's secretary. Back in the
realm of low altitude beachfront property and high strung
personalities. It's a real shame, that place: beauty wasted on
workaholics who never see it--too busy grinding away to afford
living there; the irony. A sinkhole of human ambition, and an
anachronism of my past, knocking at the door. But I've no choice
but to deal with it. This was my uncle's CPA, after all, and he's
dead now.

  The stoplight turns green, and I pass the familiar
intersection, turning left at the next light to arrive in my
parking lot. It's a quick dash up the stairs to my apartment,
where I spread out on the couch to make the call. I dial the
number and put the phone to my ear. The receptionist answers
promptly, her voice curt and distant. Can't remember if it was
like this before.

  "Office of Walter Blake, how can I help you?"

  "Hey there, this is Tom. I'm just calling to get back to you.
Sorry I missed the call--just spaced out and lost track of time.
There's no excuse." Easiest way to explain it, anyhow. Not sure
this is the appropriate time for horse race analogies.

  "Mhm," says the receptionist.

  "Would it be possible to reschedule?"

  "Sure. Would two-thirty today work for you?"

  "Yep, that'd be great."
  
  "Ok, then."
  
  "Sorry again. Apologies for any inconvenience."
  
  "Ok, bye," she says, and hangs up with a punchy click.
  
  There's something in her tone, I think. She's not
pleased--didn't acknowledge the apology, either. Perhaps I came
off as too dismissive. But I was only telling the truth, and I am
sorry. Oh well.

  I check the time. It's already two o'clock. Only half an hour
to kill before the new appointment, so I watch videos on the
internet to pass the time. Two-thirty comes fast, and I plug my
earbuds into my phone, preparing for the call. It's two
thirty-three; she was so prompt last time. I finish watching the
last few minutes of a John Mulaney bit. Two thirty-five. It's
like I'm hitting all the stoplights again, losing my momentum.

  At two forty-five, I unplug my headphones. She's not going to
call. I know it's an assumption, but I also know it was on
purpose. I'll have to call back tomorrow, and deal with that
dynamic. I feel anger boiling up in my chest, rising to tickle my
synapses with self-righteous indignation. Pure pettiness. Despite
myself, I let out a cackle. "Ridiculous."

  I pause with my phone halfway to my ear. The number's already
dialed, just haven't clicked the call button yet. How will I
handle this? Try for the high road, ignore the behavior, and move
on? Call her out? It sure would feel good. But it would make me
just like her, wouldn't it? The high road, that's the adult thing
to do. I press the call button and put the speaker to my ear.

  "Walter Blake's office." She sounds cheery this time, drunk on
the perfume of victory, perhaps.

  "Hey there. This is Tom again, calling you back."

  "Oh, Tom Muller? How are you today?"

  The voice is patrician now, airy and distant, as though she's
just put on a business suit and did up all the buttons. Images
flash through my mind: coastline mansions, big city skyscrapers,
and powerful executives with toothy smiles. California--I'm
starting to realize how great a distance it really is, between
that coast and rural Colorado.

  "I'm fine. Looks like we missed each other again yesterday."

  The secretary lets out a chortle. "Oh my, appears so. I presume
you're looking to reschedule?"

  "Yeah, that'd be good."

  She laughs again, a bubbly chuckle smashed between efforts of
condescension. "Ah, looks like we're all booked up until Monday.
Would that work for you? Or, I could just have Walter call you
back if he has a minute."

  Fury is boiling up in my windpipe and percolating on my lips,
vision hot and white. "Are you kidding me right now?"

  "I'm sorry, sir. I don't know what you mean."

  "You know exactly what I mean. Look, it was an honest mistake,
okay? Do you really gotta do this?"

  "Feeling alright, sir? I really have no idea what you're
talking about." Her voice is silky, venom and ice.

  "Alright, chuckles. You mean to tell me you forgot our
appointment thirty minutes after we set it up? Sounds vindictive
to me." So much for the high road.

  "But sir, that's exactly what must have happened. I forgot the
call, just like you forgot that day."

  "There it is. Convenient, isn't it? If you're gonna stick it to
me, have some fucking courage."

  "But it's so much more fun to watch you squirm."

  "You're a piece of work. You know that? Real petty. Is your
life so pathetic that you get your kicks like this?"

  "I did no different than you. You disrespected my time, so I
disrespected yours."

  "What?" My mind is a fuzzy mess of shock and awe. "There is
absolutely no moral equivalency, here."

  "Sure there is. I just explained it to you."

  "No. My missing the call was a mistake. Your missing the call
was vindictive."

  "What's it matter? You missed the call, disrespected my time. I
did the same."

  "You already said that." I squeeze my temples with my free
hand. "The difference is in intent. I had no intention of
wronging you. You had every intention of wronging me."

  I hear a snort over the receiver. "Intention's such a dated
concept. Outcomes are what matter. You wasted my time. I don't
care what you were thinking when you did it."

  "You don't really believe that," I say.

  "Sure I do. I'm a scientific determinist."

  "Is that how bourgeois pricks justify their behavior these
days?"

  "I don't have a penis, Mr. Muller. And frankly, I find your
vulgarity repulsive. Correct your tone, or I'll hang up."

  "Fine. Look, this scientific determines is conceited bull...
fiction. Wild conjecture, dressed up as fact."

  "What, you believe in a soul?" The secretary giggles.

  "No, I believe in the possibility of a soul, or some other
metaphysical process we don't understand, and I know that we know
far too little about the universe and consciousness to make any
knowledge claim regarding the fundamental nature of reality."

  "But isn't it silly, Mr. Muller, to believe in a soul? Such an
extraordinary claim."

  "The point is, it's wrong to make any claim at all. For or
against a soul, or materialism, or whatever. You can't know
anything in that realm, only believe."

  "Alright. Well, I believe in scientific determinism and I judge
your actions accordingly."

  "You do realize that in scientific determinism, nobody is
guilty, right? Our actions are all preordained by physics."

  "Well, that's not the type I believe in. I'm a utilitarian
determinist."

  "Now you're just messing with me."

  "Try me."

  "Alright, what's a utilitarian determinist to you?"

  "There is no soul, so all that matters is the impact of your
actions, not intent. Intent has no utility."

  "I guess we're moving on from materialism, then."

  "I believe that materialism is a fact of life, but we maintain
the illusion of free will and so must operate as though we are
free entities. As a determined entity under the illusion of free
will, I believe we should judge people by the net effect of their
actions, not intention."

  "Word salad."

  "Mr. Muller, it's not my problem if you can't follow my--"

  "I followed just fine, and your problem is two-fold."

  "Oh is it?"

  "Yes. First, you can't just impart moral judgements based on
your own esoteric belief system. Society wouldn't function."

  "But I just did."

  "And wrongly. For society to work, you have to operate under
the pretense of a social contract, or it all goes to shit."

  "Not true. I judge others constantly with no repercussion
whatsoever."

  "And on what basis do you judge them? I'd bet a large sum of
money that you base it on intent."

  "Not necessarily."

  "Not necessarily? Alright, I can prove it to you: that you
tacitly operate by considering intentions."

  "Oh can you?"

  "I can."

  "You're a mind reader, then?"

  "Something like that."

  "Go ahead. I'm excited," she says, cackling.

  "It's simple, really. Tell me, why were you offended when I
missed your call yesterday?"

  "It's like I said. You disrespected my time."

  "But doesn't disrespect require intent?"

  "Not necessarily, it--"

  "Never mind. But you were offended, right?"

  "Of course."

  "And you wanted to get back at me by skipping our new
appointment, right?"

  "Yes..."

  "And when we reconnected on this call, you were giggling like a
school girl. Why?"

  "Because I felt good," she says.

  "Because you got me back?"

  "That may have had something to do with it. What's your point?"

  "You derived pleasure from your intentions, see? If you missed
my call in earnest, there'd be no retribution. Put another way,
your stiffing me was passive-aggressive. Passive aggression, by
it's very nature, requires intent."

  There is a long pause before I hear her reply. "So what's your
point?"

  "That I'm right and you're wrong," I say.

  The secretary laughs again, her gleeful cackles reverberating
through the speaker like the exultation of a cartoon villain. A
cacophony of roiling clouds and scratched glass. "Is that what
you want, Mr. Muller? To be right?"

  "Yes." I pause, sensing a trap. "I think so?"

  "Very well. You're right. So, so right."

  "Thank you."

  "But I win."

  "Uh, how's that?"

  "That Monday appointment is no longer available," she says,
words dripping like sour maple syrup. "Unfortunately, our next
available slot is in six weeks. Would you like me to book you?"

  I sit for a moment in silence, contemplating the massive
spiritual stoplight that has reared into my view. I've lost the
plot again, haven't I? Got caught up in the wrong race.

  "Mr. Muller?" I can hear the secretary's tone breaking as she
attempts to stifle another one of her victory chortles.

  "I'll call back later," I say.

  "Okay, then. You do that. I'll be here!"

  "Bye," I say, and hammer the end button on my phone before
throwing it across the room. It ricochets off the wall, the
rubber case leaving a thin black mark on the bone-white paint
before bouncing to the ground. As I stare at the mark, my eyes
catch on a piece of oriental artwork that I hung on that wall
long ago. It depicts a Chinese Buddha, replete with a bowling
ball belly and elephantine earlobes that stretch down to its
rounded shoulders. He's smiling with an effortless wisdom,
guileless and ageless.

  "Don't you laugh at me, too," I say, eyeing the Buddha as
though the picture might respond with some witty retort. An
indecipherable koan, no doubt--something about one hand clapping,
or ants on blades of grass. But the Buddha just sits in silence
and smiles at the futility of my reasoning. "I know, I know.
Should've taken the high road."
